Welcome to a hands on lesson for Amazon Route 53 now in this lesson, I'm going to use the registrar
capabilities of Route 50 free to register a domain name, and I'm going to use that to my name for a
few lessons in this course.
But to be fair, not a lot of lessons.
I'm going to use it a couple of times to show you how we can use our own custom domain names to connect
to resources using Route 53.
Now it's totally optional, and it's going to cost you up to around 10 or 12 dollars to actually register
a domain so you don't need to.
If you, you know, if you've got the money and you're happy to do that, then by all means register
a domain.
Otherwise, just watch what I do and you'll learn a bit through the process.
So in the management console, I'm going to go to services.
Let's come down to networking and content delivery and Route 53.
Now I land on this main dashboard here and we can see some of the features of Route 53.
We've got DNS management, traffic management, availability, monitoring, I suppose, health checks
we talked about and domain registration.
So I'm going to choose registered domain.
We now get to choose the domain name we want.
So I would love to have IWC Cloud Labs, but there's a good chance that I won't be able to get that
one.
It sounds like quite a good domain name.
So certainly the dot com is not available.
You then get some other options here.
But what I'm going to do instead.
Let's put in DCT Cloud Labs and you'll just need to find something unique.
So we've DCT Cloud Labs, I can get the dot com, and there's some other options.
Sometimes you find some lower priced options, even down to five bucks.
So have a search, and the various suffixes are in this little dropdown list here.
And you can see the prices vary quite a bit, so you can find some cheaper ones.
Now I'm happy with this.
I'm going to add DCT Cloud Lipscombe to my cart register for one year.
Click on Continue and then you'll need to fill out the registrant contact information.
Now, make sure you get the correct email address in here.
If you want to do things like registering a SSL certificate through the Amazon Certificate manager,
it's going to send a request to this email address, so make sure that's one that you're actually monitoring.
Once you filled out that information, you just have to accept the terms and conditions and complete
the order so the order is being processed.
And what we'll find is if we go to hosted zones and we don't actually have anything here yet.
Keep an eye on this pop back in a few minutes and what you should find is that you have a hosting zone
for the domain name you've just registered.